
											TERMS AND CONDITIONS 

	1. General

	The following terms and conditions, together with such terms as are set forth in the Purchase Order Form ("Form"),with such plans,
	specifications or other documents as are incorporated by reference , as amended in any subsequent authorized writing from Buyer, shall
	constitute the entire contract (the "Purchase Order") between The Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania ("Buyer") and Supplier. 
	If bid documents, performance specifications, technical product descriptions or other similar descriptive materials submitted by Supplier 
	in connection with the Purchase Order,or Supplier's proposal, have been incorporated by reference, these shall not be deemed to supersede
	any contrary requirements of Buyer, but to the extent that such materials are not inconsistent with Buyer's requirements,they shall
	constitute a part of the basis of this agreement. If this Purchase Order is construed as an offer,this offer expressly limits acceptance
	to the terms of this offer and notice of objection to any different or additional terms in any response to this offer is hereby given. 
	If this Purchase Order is construed as an acceptance of an offer, this acceptance is expressly conditioned upon the offerer's assent to
	any different or additional terms contained or referenced in this Purchase Order. If this Purchase Order is construed as a confirmation
	of an existing contract, the parties agree that this confirmation states the exclusive terms of any contract between the parties. 

	This Purchase Order shall be deemed to have been accepted by the Supplier upn receipt by the Buyer of any writing, including a writing
	transmitted by fax or other means of electronic transmission, indicating acceptance, or by any of the following: (i) shipment of the goods
	or any portion thereof, (ii) commencement of any work on site or (iii) performance of any services hereunder.


	2. Electronic/Facsimile Transmission

	If this Purchase Order is transmitted by fax or by other means of electronic transmission, such transmission shall have the legal significance
	of a duly executed original delivered to the Supplier, but only if the Transmit Terminal Identification on the Form includes the notation
	"Penn Purchasing Services."


	3. Payment

	Discount terms are as set forth in the Form. If no terms are specified, the net amount shall be payable within 30 days after the later of 
	(i)  delivery and acceptance of goods or other performance conforming with the terms of this Purchase Order and 
	(ii) invoicing. Except as otherwise provided in the Purchase Order, the price includes all applicable Federal, State and local taxes and
	     duties. Supplier assigns to Buyer all rights to refunds of sales and use taxes paid in connection with this Purchase Order and agrees
	     to co-operate with Buyer in the processing of any refund claims. Unless expressly otherwise provided in the Form, Buyer shall not be
	     liable for any shipping, handling, fuel surcharges or similar fees.


	4. Time

	If delivery or completion dates can not be met, Supplier shall inform Buyer immediately. Such notice shall not, however, constitute a change
	to the delivery or completion terms of this Purchase Order unless Buyer modifies this Purchase Order in writing.

	If any item is not received or if any element of the work is not completed by the date specified, the Buyer, at Buyer's option and without
	prior notice to Supplier, may either approve a revised date or may cancel this Purchase Order and may obtain such goods or work elsewhere
	and in either event the Supplier shall be liable to the Buyer for any resulting loss incurred by the Buyer. Supplier's sole remedy for a delay 
	caused by Buyer shall be an extension in the time for Supplier's performance equal to the duration of Buyer's delay. Supplier shall not be liable 
	for damages resulting from Supplier's failure to deliver or complete, or for delays in delivery or completion, caused solely by strikes not
	caused by or within the control of Supplier, lock-outs not caused by or within the control of Supplier, fires, war or acts of God.

	TIMING OF DELIVERY AND/OR PERFORMANCE OF THE WORK IS OF THE ESSENCE OF THIS PURCHASE ORDER.


	5. Improper Performance and Disputes

	In addition to other remedies provided by law, Buyer reserves the right to reject any goods or to revoke any previous acceptance and to cancel 
	all or any part of the Purchase Order if Supplier fails to deliver all or any part of the goods or perform any of the work in accordance with 
	the terms and conditions of this Purchase Order. Acceptance of any part ofthe Purchase Order shall not bind the Buyer to accept any future shipments 
	or work, nor deprive it of the right to return goods already accepted. At Buyer's option, if Buyer so elects in its sole discretion with regard to 
	any particulardispute, any dispute arising in connection with this Purchase Order shall be resolved by arbitration in Philadelphia,PA in accordance 
	with the rules of the American Arbitration Association; and all disputes shall otherwise be resolvedin and only in the Court of Common Pleas of 
	Philadelphia County, PA as the exclusive judicial forum. 

	BUYER AND SELLER WAIVE THEIR RIGHT TO A JURY TRIAL WITH REGARD TO ANY DISPUTE ARISING IN CONNECTION WITH THIS PURCHASE ORDER.


	6. Warranty

	Supplier expressly warrants all (i) goods delivered under this Purchase Order to be free from defects in material andworkmanship and to be of the 
	quality, size and dimensions ordered and (ii) work performed under this Purchase Order to be in conformity with all plans, specifications and other 
	data incorporated as part of this Purchase Order. Notwithstanding any limitation of warranty, Supplier further represents and warrants that the 
	supply, quality andfitness for the purpose of the goods or services will not be impaired, disrupted or interrupted in whole or in part by the 
	occurrence of any leap year. These express warranties shall not be waived by reason of acceptance or paymentby the Buyer. This Purchase Order 
	incorporates by reference all terms of the Uniform Commercial Code as adopted in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania (the "UCC") providing any 
	protection to Buyer for goods, including but not limited to all warranty protection (express or implied) and all of Buyer's remedies under the UCC. 
	
	All goods and 	work shall also be subject to any stricter warranties specified in the Purchase Order or in other materials incorporated by reference.


	7. Risk of Loss

	Unless the Purchase Order expressly states otherwise, all goods shall be shipped FOB: the "Ship to" location designated in the Form. Risk of loss shall 
	not pass to Buyer until goods called for in this Purchase Order actually have been received and accepted by the Buyer at the destination specified herein. 
	Supplier assumes full responsibility for packing, crating, marking, transportation and liability for loss and/or damage even if Buyer has agreed to pay 
	freight, express or other transportation charges.


	8. Indemnity and Hold Harmless

	From and after the date of this Purchase Order, the Supplier agrees to indemnify, defend and hold harmless the Buyerfrom any and all claims and liabilities, 
	regardless of by whom such claim or liability may be asserted, for personal injury (including death), or loss or damage to property, or otherwise that may 
	result directly or indirectly from the use, possession or ownership of the goods or from the services provided by Supplier pursuant to this Purchase Order.
	
	With regard to Supplier's obligation to defend, the Buyer shall have the right to select the legal counsel whom Supplier shall provide to defend any Indemnified
	Party, subject to Supplier's approval of the qualifications of such legal counseland the reasonableness of counsel's hourly rates as compared to the rates of 
	attorneys with similar experience and qualifications in the relevant area of legal expertise and in the jurisdiction where the claim will be adjudicated. 
	
	If the Buyer elects, in its sole discretion, to retain separate legal counsel, in addition to or in lieu of the counsel to be provided by Supplier, then all 
	costs and expenses incurred by the Buyer for such separate counsel shall be borne by the Buyer and the Supplier shall reasonably cooperate with the Buyer and 
	its separate legal counsel in the investigation and defense of any such claim or action. Supplier shall not settle or compromise any claim or action giving 
	rise to Claims in a manner that imposes any restrictions or obligations on Buyer without Buyer's prior written consent. 
	
	If the Buyer elects to require that Supplier defend a Claim pursuant to this paragraph, and Supplier fails or declines to assume the defense of such Claim 
	within thirty (30) days after notice thereof, the Buyer may assume the defense of such Claim for the account and at the risk of Supplier, and any Liabilities 
	related thereto shall be conclusively deemed a liability of Supplier. The indemnification rights of the Indemnified Parties contained herein are in addition 
	to all other rights which such Indemnified Party may have at law or in equity or otherwise.


	9. Assignment/Subcontracting

	Neither party shall have any right to assign this Purchase Order or any benefits arising from this Purchase Order without prior written consent of the other 
	and, unless otherwise agreed upon in writing, the rights of any assigneeshall be subject to all set-offs, counterclaims, and other comparable rights arising 
	hereunder. Supplier shall not, except in the case of raw materials, castings, forgings or rough welded structures, or standard commercial goods, or except as 
	otherwise agreed in writing by the Buyer, delegate or subcontract the work on any item of material or service to be delivered or performed under this Purchase 
	Order.


	10. Insurance

	In connection with the Purchase Order, Supplier, at its own cost and expense, shall obtain and maintain in force during the term of this Purchase Order, 
	the following insurance coverage:
	
	A policy of workers' compensation insurance, in amounts required by law, covering all officers and employees of Supplierwho are in any way engaged
 	in or connected with the Purchase Order, and employer's liability insurance in an amount of not less than Five Hundred Thousand Dollars ($500,000). 
	Supplier shall require its agents, sub-suppliers and subcontractors, who are in any way engaged in or connected with the Purchase Order to maintain 
	the same insurance as required herein of Supplier.
	
	A policy of commercial general liability insurance with broad form property damage endorsement, personal injury and products completed operations coverage, 
	affording protection in an amount of not less than Two Million Dollars ($2,000,000) per incident and in the aggregate, with respect to personal injury, death, 
	or damage to property.If this Purchase Order contemplates professional services, a policy of professional liability insurance, including errorsand omissions, 
	affording protection of not less than One Million Dollars ($1,000,000) per incident and One Million Dollars ($1,000,000) in the aggregate.A policy of comprehensive
	automobile liability insurance covering the operation of all motor vehicles used by Supplier or its agents in connection with this Purchase Order, affording 
	protection in an amount of not less than One Million Dollars ($1,000,000) combined single limit with respect to personal injury, death, or damage to property.
	
	All of these insurance policies shall be issued by insurance companies with an AM Best rating of "A" or higher and a financial strength rating of VII or higher,
	or equivalent ratings provided by a disinterested, generally recognized rating agency, which companies shall be licensed or permitted to conduct business in
	the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. The commercial general liability policy shall name The Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania as an additional insured, 
	and shall be written as primary coverage and not contributing with or in excess of any coverage that the Buyer may carry. Upon request, Supplier shall furnish 
	to Buyer a current certificate of insurance for each of the policies required above. Insurance coverage(s) provided under this Purchase Order shall not limit 
	or restrict in any way the liability of Supplier arising under or in connection with this Purchase Order. Such insurance shall not be canceled or terminated 
	without ten (10) days prior written notice of any cancellation or termination.


	11. Examination of Records


	The Supplier agrees that Buyer, and any Federal agency providing funding for this Purchase Order and the Comptroller General of the United States or any of 
	their duly authorized representatives, shall have access to and the right to examine any pertinent books, documents, papers and records of the Supplier 
	involving transactions related to this Purchase Order to the extent necessary to verify the nature and extent of costs incurred under this Purchase Order until
	the expiration of four (4) years after final payment under this Purchase Order. Nothing in this Purchase Order shall be deemed to preclude an audit by the U.S. 
	General Accounting Office of any transaction under this Purchase Order. The preceding two sentences shall not apply if this Purchase Order does not involve a 
	sum in excess of One Thousand Dollars ($1,000), or if this is an agreement for public utility services at rates established for uniform applicability to the 
	general public, or if this is as agreement for general inventory goods not specifically identifiable with work under the Buyer's contract with the government.


	12. Renegotiation

	If this Purchase Order is subject to the Renegotiation Act of 1951, as amended, then it shall be deemed to contain all the provisions required by Section 104 of 
	said Act as amended. Nothing contained in this clause shall impose a renegotiation obligation with respect to this Purchase Order or any subcontract hereunder 
	which is not imposed by an act of Congress heretofore or hereafter enacted. Supplier agrees to include the provisions of this clause in all subcontracts as required 
	by Section 103(g) of the Renegotiation Act.


	13. Non-Discrimination in Employment

	In connection with the performance of work under this Purchase Order, the Supplier agrees as follows:
	
	Buyer is a federal contractor, subject to Executive Order 11246 (as amended), the Vietnam Era Veterans’ Readjustment Assistance Act (as amended) and 
	Section 503 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (as amended), along with related regulations.This Purchase Order is subject to the requirements of 41 CFR 60-1.4 
	and 29 CFR part 471, Appendix A to Subpart A, which are incorporated into this Purchase Order by reference, as applicable. These regulations prohibit discrimination 
	on the basis of race, color, religion, sex or national origin and require affirmative action to employ and advance in employment individuals without regard to race, 
	color, religion, sex or national origin. In addition, this Purchase Order is subject to the requirements of 41 CFR 60-300.5(a) and 41 CFR 60-741.5(a), which are 
	incorporated herein by reference, as applicable. This Buyer and Supplier shall abide by the requirements of 41 CFR 60-300.5(a) and 41 CFR 60-741.5(a), as applicable. 

	These regulations prohibit discrimination against qualified individuals on the basis of disability and protected veteran status, and require affirmative action to 
	employ and advance in employment qualified individuals with disabilities and qualified protected veterans. The Supplier will furnish all information and reports 
	required by Executive Order No. 11246 as amended, and by the rules, regulations, and orders of the U.S. Secretary of Labor, or pursuant thereto, and will permit 
	access to Supplier's books, records, and accounts by the contracting agency and the U.S. Secretary of Labor for purposes of investigation to ascertain compliance 
	with such rules, regulations, and orders.
	
	In the event of the Supplier's non-compliance with the non-discrimination clauses of this Purchase Order or with any of the said rules, regulations, or orders, this 
	Purchase Order may be cancelled, terminated or suspended in whole or in part and the Supplier may be declared ineligible for further Government contracts as provided 
	by law.

	14. Compliance with Laws and Regulations

	The Supplier agrees to comply with all applicable federal, state, and local laws and regulations. If this Purchase Order is issued pursuant to a contract between the 
	Buyer and the federal government, the provisions of OMB Circular A-110 (1993)-Appendix A shall apply in accordance with their terms. OMB Circular A-110 mandates 
	compliance with the Copeland "Anti-Kickback" Act, the Davis-Bacon Act, and the Contract Work Hours and Safety Standards Act, Sections 102 and 107. If the amount of this Purchase 
	Order exceeds One Hundred Thousand Dollars ($100,000) and any portion of the Purchase Order is funded by the federal government, Supplier shall file the certifications required by 
	the Byrd Anti-Lobbying Amendment, and shall comply will all applicable standards, orders and regulations issued pursuant to the Federal Water Pollution Control Act 
	and the Clean Air Act. Supplier shall provide certification regarding its and its principal employees' exclusion status upon request. COPIES OF OMB CIRCULAR A-110 (1993) APPENDIX-A 
	AND INFORMATION REGARDING THE SOURCE OF FUNDS FOR THIS PURCHASE ORDER WILL BE PROVIDED TO SUPPLIER UPON REQUEST.


	15. Termination Without Cause

	Buyer, in its sole discretion and without cause, may terminate this Purchase Order, in whole or in part, at any time without incurring liability to Supplier for lost 
	profits, or any other costs or damages, other than the proportionate value of the purchase price for work completed on site or goods delivered. Payment due shall be a percentage 
	of the purchase price equal to the percentage of the work completed and/or any unit prices in the purchase price specified for goods delivered. Supplier's warranties, and Supplier's 
	liability for defective or non-conforming work or goods, as well as sections 5, 6, 8, 10, 11 and 17 of these Terms and Conditions, shall survive termination and remain in full force 
	and effect.


	16. Additional Provisions for Work Performed on Site

	The provisions set forth in Paragraphs 16(a) through 16(d) below shall apply to work performed at locations owned, leased or otherwise controlled by Owner 
	("Owner's Site") unless Exhibit "B" applies. For construction work, Exhibit "B" of these terms and conditions sets forth alternate provisions and requirements that shall apply in 
	lieu of Paragraph 16(a) through 16(d).The Supplier shall maintain on the Site at all times a sufficient work force to carry out its obligations in an efficient and timely manner. 
	
	The Supplier shall employ only competent, skilled, reliable and honest workmen who will work in harmony with other workmen on the Site. All persons furnished by Supplier shall be 
	deemed Supplier's employees or agents, and Supplier shall comply with all applicable statutes regarding worker's compensation, employer's liability, unemployment compensation, 
	and/or old age benefits and all other applicable laws relating to or affecting the employment of labor. At the Owner's instruction, the Supplier shall promptly remove from the 
	Site any employee who, in the Owner's opinion, represents a threat to the safety or progress of the Project or persons on the Site, or who has engaged in any improper conduct, 
	specifically including (without limitation) conduct which the Owner perceives as constituting harassment of students or other persons.Supplier shall secure all materials and the 
	site where Work is performed, and shall leave all areas broom clean (unless a more stringent cleanliness standard is set forth in documents that are incorporated in this Purchase 
	Order by reference) and in a safe condition at the end of each work day and upon completion of the Work. In case of dispute, Owner may remove waste at Supplier's expense.Supplier 
	shall ensure that federal, state and county of residence criminal background checks are conducted on all persons performing Work at the Site, and shall exclude from the Site any 
	dishonest, dangerous or otherwise unqualified persons.In the event of an emergency threatening health, life or property, the Supplier shall take such action as may be necessary to 
	save lives and protect persons from injury and, this being done, to protect and preserve property. The Supplier shall notify the Owner of any such emergency as promptly as is 
	practicable under the circumstances.

